# University of Arkansas Team 11 Capstone Project: GM Electric Vehicle Chargering Application
A Xamarin Forms EV charger routing application implemented using Google Maps API, a Amazon RDS MySQL database, and the Department of Energy Alternative Fuel Station API.

## About the App
This app was created as part of a capstone project at the University of Arkansas in coordination with General Motors. The goal of this application is to bring together traditional map functionalities with up-to-date charging information from the Department of Energy and a custom database. Charging station information is often out of date or incorrect, leading to frustration in the EV community. With this application users are able to submit reviews about charging stations in order to crowd source information. Specifically the app has a focus on handicap accessibility for EV charging stations, as the Department of Energy does not have any data regarding this. 

## How it Works
The map screen is implemented using the Google Maps Platform, specifically Directions and the Autocomplete API's. Charging stations are loaded onto the map when the camera position of the user moves. The charging station icons build off of the *Pin* map object. Tapping on a charging station will bring up its name, and tapping on the name will bring up an information page for that charger with a subsequent review button. There are two buttons in the toolbar used for routing in this application. The charging button logo switches between the normal routing mode and the charger routing mode. The map icon performs a series of actions. If only one search bar is present pressing the map icon will make the second search bar appear. Once two valid addresses have been entered into the search bar the user can press the map icon again to request a route. If the user is done looking at a particular route they can press the map button again to remove the route from the screen or request another route which will remove the previous route from the screen. The user also has access to their information in the database through user settings, here they can update their vehicle type, update their vehicle charger, and change their password. There is also a charger list screen which will list the closest 100 chargers to the user.
